Welcome, guys and girls, to running TerraForm from Jenkins lecture.
And so before we do all the fun stuff of running the actual TerraForm, write the Jenkins file and stuff,
we have to take care of some installation and set up.
We're going to go over that in this lecture.
All right.
Let's get started.
So when it comes to terraform with the Jenkins set up, you need to install TerraForm in Jenkins agent.
So we are running Jenkins in EC2.
So we are going to install terraform on EC2 and then we have to install the TerraForm Jenkins plugin
from Jenkins and then you have to set up the TerraForm Path in Jenkins.
And the last thing you need is whatever your TerraForm script is trying to do, let's say in this case
we are trying to provision an x cluster.
So the Jenkins agent must have appropriate IAM role attached to it with the appropriate policies with
access to create all the necessary components for x cluster.
All right, let's do one by one.
Let's start with installing TerraForm in Jenkins agent to find out how to install TerraForm in your
agent Google TerraForm.
And so our case we are running on EC2, which is running on Amazon Linux two.
So let's click download TerraForm and then go to Linux.
And in our case we are using Amazon Linux.
So you have to select the appropriate operating system you are using.
All right.
So now we are going to search into the Jenkins agent.
So my Jenkins is running inside the CC too.
I'm going to use the Xlm Connect.
So click connect.
All right, go back to the installation instruction and then I'm going to run the commands one by one.
All right.
Next, I'm going to add this hash cop report.
And finally, we're going to run install TerraForm.
All right.
TerraForm is installed.
If I clear my screen and type, which terraform it is going to show us the path.
So its user being terraform.
We need to use this for setting up the Jenkins path, but before that, let's go into Jenkins and install
TerraForm plugin.
All right, click this icon.
By this time, you folks all know how to install plugins, manage plugins and click available and then
type terraform.
All right, click terraform install without restart.
All right, it's done.
So now we have to set up the path to do that.
I got to manage Jenkins and the global tool configuration and then scroll down.
You should see TerraForm at TerraForm uncheck this install automatically because we already installed
TerraForm, we are just going to give the path to the install directory, give the name as terraform
install directory.
So here you have to give the directory.
So if we go back, it is slash user slash bin.
So we are just going to put slash user slash bin and then you have to put a slash.
All right, click save.
All right.
Now, the last thing is to set up the IAM role for the Jenkins legend in our case, ESI two.
So if I select the ESI two and then go to security, it is going to show us the IAM role.
So if I click this so here in the ESI two role, you want to attach the policies that you need and generally
you use list privilege.
So if you want to submit cloud formation and create a S3 bucket, we saw this before.
You attach the policy to submit cloud formation and policy to create S3 bucket.
But since in this chapter we are going to do a bunch of things like create VPC and then create a cluster,
and IT guest cluster requires a lot of permissions and not just the Kubernetes cluster you need ESI
to Nat Gateway, PPC, egress, all that stuff.
So I'll just put admin access in this role just for this demo.
But in your Real World project, when you are doing a specific thing, you should always attach specific
policy.
Okay.
So now what we're going to do is we're just going to check if our Jenkins job can have access to this
terraform.
So we're just going to click new item.
I'm gonna terraform check pipeline, click.
Okay.
Scroll down just to Hello World.
And after this hello world I'm put S-H.
Tough on fashion.
So I'm just checking if this basic TerraForm Command runs in our Jenkins job.
Click Save.
Click Build now.
OC Tran.
We're going to check the console output.
Here we go.
The Terraformed version gave us the most up to date.
Version Terraformed.
Version 1.1.9.
All right, folks.
At this point, TerraForm is installed.
Both the software in our Jenkins agent, as well as Jenkins plugin, as well as the path is set.
So let's jump into the next lecture and run some TerraForm scripts.